hello everyone welcome back to my
channel now that you've made a list of
your universities if you haven't made
them yet go back to the previous videos
don't skip them because we're going step
by step to finding the right University
where you're gonna study so now you have
the list of universities and now your
task is to figure out do they have
financial aid and today I'm gonna teach
you three types of financial aid that
you should look for when you're looking
for a university to get into in the
United States if you're interested
continue watching first type of
financial aid is my favorite and it's
called scholarship why is it my favorite
because once you get a scholarship
you don't really owe anything to a
university so the way it worked for me
with Johns Hopkins universities and
masters in marketing they told me that
hey marina we have this Dean scholarship
we have only two of them that we award
every year and you're one of the
applicants that we awarding it to and it
is $60,000 $60,000 is the cost of the
program so what it means I don't have to
pay and there are no strings attached so
I'm just getting it because I've shown
that my application is above average the
University like my portfolio and they
wanted to encourage me to start studying
at their University by giving me the
Dean scholarship there are some things
to remember like Dean's and like
presidents and all of those Fulbright
scholarships are really really limited
so like take for example Temple
University I would say like we have so
many students get into Temple University
and every single student got like $5,000
scholarship $10,000 scholarship but the
average tuition is like $30,000 so
what's important for you to figure out
at this stage is to find out how big is
the scholarship and how big it can get
because again if your budget is like
mine it was like a hundred dollars or
whatever so if it's really limited you
don't want to apply to universities that
would not be able to meet your financial
needs because what you're gonna end up
with is a lot of offers from the
universities and a lot of invoices and
what happens they're gonna tell you hey
Ari
rate of 40,000 dollars and we awarded
you the scholarship which is $5,000
which means that you still owe us
$35,000
you don't want to end up there if you
have a limited budget to make sure you
take the table that we've created
together in the last video go to the
University and check out what kinds of
financial aid you have the next type of
financial aid is called assistantship
and there are two types of
assistantships number one is a teaching
assistantship which means that if you're
getting it you're going to teach other
students and help the professor there is
also administrative assistant ship which
means that you're gonna work on campus
now really important pay a lot of
attention guys yes there is work
opportunities on campus like you can
work in a cafeteria you can work in the
library and they would give you like $15
an hour and that's it this has nothing
to do with an assistantship because
again assistantship is a kind of
financial aid and if you get it yes you
work but what you get is actually free
tuition and a step in for example which
is a lot a lot more than what you're
getting if you just do general like work
on campus thing so assistantships are
really really good and they are more
common than scholarships because with
this kind of financial aid you're
actually giving something back to your
university again teaching assistantship
they would be looking at higher
TOEFL score cuz if you're an
international student they would need to
make sure that it image is good enough
so you can teach American students how
that works so for example you got a
teaching assistantship you get assigned
to a professor likes a maths professor
and your professor tells you okay could
you please help me prepare the deck for
this lecture now tomorrow I want you to
lead a seminar on the topic that which
is discussed and the day after tomorrow
I want you to sit down and check
homeworks from my other students this is
roughly what people do when they get a
teaching assistantship they teach they
check homeworks they prepare tests and
work with a professor another important
announcement there are not a lot of
teaching assistantships and they are
very competitive
apart from Hayatou full score they would
also be asking you to maybe fill out a
separate application
which I did when I applied for a couple
of teaching assistantships and they
would compare your application with
other people's applications so it's a
good practice to reach out a university
and ask them oh I've seen that you have
teaching assistantships on your website
could you please tell me who gets them
how many of them do you provide and what
is the amount of financial aid that I
get together with that assistantship
because again the common practice is to
waive your tuition and give you some
step ends so you can live but sometimes
it's only like half tuition of 30%
tertian I got a teaching assistantship
one apply to the University of Florida
and it was ten hours a week of work at
an administrative position and it
required me to work part-time on campus
doing administrative work normally that
will be like maybe working the
admissions committee like going through
new applications or working in an
international department helping other
international students navigate through
their new life so there are a lot of
types of administrative work on campus
but again if you get awarded a
administrative assistant ship you get
normally tuition waivers zip and etc and
again highlighting this all the time
this is all really really competitive
just imagine like average tuition
$40,000 you're asking a university for
$40,000 if you're an average applicant
and don't want to put a lot of effort in
your application guess what you're not
gonna get it like universities are
looking for very extraordinary
outstanding students who put a lot of
effort in their applications we're like
I really really want to study with you
here are my accomplishments this is what
you're gonna get if you accept me like
those kinds of students get it water it
financial aid so please take it very
seriously don't just be like oh I sound
like ten obligations just wait no really
put you hard and to them like read
whatever university wants to tell you on
their website and type of financial aid
number three there AR different
fellowships provided by our professors
themselves like for example if you are
doing PhD PhD is very often financed by
fellowship so imagine we have a
professor he's doing your research and a
university gives them two hundred
thousand
for that research what he does with that
money the professor he hires or like
works with four PhDs and uses that money
to pay them Stepan and phd's get jiton
vapors or whatever from the university
this is how fellowships work and another
type of financial aid really depends on
your country but again I would highly
encourage you to check if there are any
government programs from your country
that would sponsor your studies abroad
but pay attention to a very important
thing is that if you are sponsored by
your government or maybe Fulbright
scholarship which is provided by the
American government to help people come
here to do the master's degree there is
a rule after those programs that once
you complete them you cannot stay in the
US because if you're a student that is
not involved in any linked governmental
program if you come here to the US and
study at least a year on a full-time
program you get one two three years of
work permit but if you're sponsored by
your government you will need to go back
and work in New York country just keep
that in mind you're a task after this
lesson is to go back to your table that
you've created with your universities go
to their websites and check out what
kinds of financial aid they provide and
how big is it that's really important if
their website doesn't say anything reach
out of them should them an email
tell them how amazing you are so they
would pay attention to your email and
ask them about the amount of financial
aid that they have that was it for me
guys please like this video if you
enjoyed the content if you have any
questions related to university
admissions that I haven't covered yet
please ask them in comments below and
I'll see you soon bye